---
title: Vert.x 3.4.0 is released !
date: 2016-09-12
template: post.html
author: vietj
---

Vert.x 3.4.0 has just been released with many new exciting features!

Since the beginning Vert.x has provided a polyglot runtime, this version simply adds the support of two major languages
of the JVM ecosystem: Scala 2.12 and Kotlin 1.1.

Some features are so important that they deserve to be taken to another level : the Vert.x Web Client focuses on usability
features for building web applications. It actually builds upon the multi purpose and scalable Http Client and inherits
all its features.

Vert.x RxJava is a very popular extension, 3.4 supports the `rx.Single` reactive type as well as `Observable`
_reactive pull back pressure_, combined with Vert.x Web Client, it is a very powerful combo.

You can now get a stream for large result sets using JDBC client, with RxJava your stream becomes
naturally an `Observable`.

When it comes to IoT, Vert.x is a relevant choice thanks to its unique toolkit approach that combines
 modularity and reduced footprint, there are no doubts that the new Vert.x MQTT Server extends Vert.x capabilities
 in this field!

Everyone know Kafka, everyone loves Kafka, the new Vert.x Kafka Client gives you everything you need to use Kafka
the Vert.x way!

On the service side, Vert.x gRPC will give a boost to your microservices and Vert.x Config fills the gap
in our micro-service toolbox. In addition we provide now a full fledged Vert.x Consul client!

During this release cycle we took security very seriously and ensured that Vert.x-Web sessions are safe and
follows the OWASP recommendations. Plus many usability improvements on OAuth2 setup and a new auth
mechanism ``htdigest`` is available.

Devops haven't been forgotten with Vert.x Health Check, a key feature for enabling application monitoring.

In addition, here is a list of the most noticeable additions you can find in 3.4

- Vert.x Infinispan is a new cluster option and supersedes of the JGroups option
- HTTP and Web client redirect handling
- Zero-config service proxies generation with a `processor` classified jar
- a new `SelfSignedCertificate` to make easy to create tests and demos with TLS/SSL
- Hystrix metrics in the circuit breaker
- Handlebars templates can now fully resolve properties passed to them
- JsonObject POJO mapping convenience
- Http compression level option
- Groovy support now uses extension methods and does not generate wrappers anymore
- Dropwizard match metrics can now have an alias
- RxHelper method for adapting an `Observable<T>` to a `ReadStream<T>`
- RxHelper method for adpating a `Handler<AsyncResult<T>>` to a `Subscriber<T>`



